Network_management_using_raspberryPi
====================================

Source code for "Wi-Pi" that enables low-cost and distributed assessment of Wi-Fi network performance in an enterprise network using Raspberry Pi. The cost of assessment of Wi-Fi signal quality is still expensive and its continuity of the monitoring is not guaranteed. The number of monitoring devices such as spectrum analyzer is limited, and they will not stay at one place to monitor the entire Wi-Fi coverage under geographically distributed deployment. Monitoring feature of Wi-Fi signal at production-level access points does not reﬂect the actual situation of clients. Wi-Pi is a low-cost and stationary solution that distributes multiple Raspberry Pis in an enterprise network for monitoring Wi-Fi. Wi-Pi involves a static distributed network of low-cost Pis (for simplification we call Raspberry Pi as ‘Pi’, pronounced as ‘Pie’) that interacts with the access points (routers) continuously to provide a continuous spectrum analysis of Wi-F signal strength (RSSI), along with Packet Loss and Round-trip  delay  time  (RTT)  in  getting  to  the  specified server.  Along with the information provided by Pis and  the  pre-existing  information  with  the  server,  like geographical  location  of  access  points  and  Pis,  Wi-Pi visualizes this information on a geographical heat map. Unlike other network analysis tools that either provide only the information about Wi-Fi signal strength (RSSI) or information about rate of data transfer, Wi-Pi is designed to monitor RSSI, RTT and rate of packet loss simultaneously from user’s perspective.

